We want to take a moment to pay tribute to Barbara Walter.
She was a trailblazing journalist who spent more than half a century in broadcast news
throughout her iconic career.
Barbara Walter shattered glass ceiling after glass ceiling, breaking bears,
and an industry once dominated by men.
And paving the way for today's female journalists.
She was the first ever woman to co-host NBC's Today Show.
And later, the first woman to anchor a network evening news broadcast.
In a tweet on Saturday, President Biden said, quote,
Barbara Walter's has always been an example of bravery and truth breaking barriers while driving
our nation forward. Her legacy will continue as an inspiration for all journalists.
Barbara Walter's conducted hundreds of interviews with newsmakers from the world of politics,
sports, and entertainment. She was famous for asking tough questions and sometimes uncomfortable
questions and forgetting some of the world's most famous people to reveal parts of themselves,
the public had not seen before. Here she was on Meet the Press back in February 1976,
pressing then the Prime Minister of Israel.
We'll have the first questions now from Barbara Walters of NBC News.
Mr. Prime Minister, you have repeatedly said in your speeches that a
militarily strong Israel is necessary to maintain the peace.
Now, the Pentagon and the CIA have reported after their military analysis that Israel is more
than strong enough to deter any Arab aggression. Were you able to convince Congress and President
forward those who are responsible for deciding military aid to Israel that you are right
and that the CIA and the Pentagon are wrong?
Well, first of all, I'd like to thank the CIA and the Pentagon for complementing Israel
for its military strengths. But I believe that we need more than compliments. We need hard work.
Mr. Prime Minister, we've heard these arguments now back and forth for a year.
And I'd like to get back to my very first question, which was how do you expect to have a Geneva
conference? We convened without the PLO. Can you give us any sign, any hope, any direction?
Can you realistically be specific about one new action that's going to break the stalemate,
the same conversation back and forth that we've heard from the year? Has anything happened in
this week or are things basically the way they were before you came to this country?
I believe that there are basically two options. How to move to its peace.
Incredible to watch her do her work. Barbara Walters died on Friday in New York City. She was 93 years old.
