there we go all right let's let's check this out let's okay
i like the music it's not bad not a bad choice
oh it's loose oh she's got the sign
dude hey geronimo aloha maybe here keep up the amazing stream and never miss a cannon menu
Hey Jarrah, LS22 here. Love your stream. I have improved my gameplay and my ADC. Thank
you very much for helping me get out of Bronze. Bye!
Hey there. I watch Geronimo's stream because I think that he's a really chill guy and
I think he does a really good job cultivating a positive atmosphere in the community and
he's actually helped me a lot as a player getting better at the ADC role.
Hey, Geronimo, Griever84 here. Just wanted to say a quick thanks for everything that you do for your community.
As a fellow streamer myself, I've done a lot of my streams kinda in the same fun and laid back atmosphere that you do every day.
So from Griever's Guardian Forces to the Geronimbros, just want to say thanks for being awesome, and we'll catch you next stream. Later.
daily reminder that Jarrah will never, ever hug you. Ever. Never.
I'm one of the great streamers. I've watched him for a long time. For a reason.
18 months I've been subscribed.
It's Fastboyz! What?
With a loyal community. And he's down to earth.
Hey Jarrah, it's Firestrike here.
Uh, just wanted to say that you're a pretty awesome dude and really enjoy chilling out and watching you stream when you're on.
So, um, yeah, makes my day, man.
I just wanna give you a thumbs up, cheers man.
You got Valor to do it too?
Hey Gera mate, well first of all I wanna say one big thank you for hosting me for like
getting record with 920 people on the channel.
One more thing, thank you so much for your 50 euro donation, it did mean a lot to me.
News about me, I managed to get the house for the animals, so I actually get a few animals
off the street.
You can check.
I love this guy.
This guy's awesome.
On my YouTube channel.
I love Valor, man.
He's such a nice guy.
Keep doing a good job.
Bye.
The one reason why I really like your anonymous stream is because of how much
it came into a family, and he's taught me so much about ADCs.
taught me a lot about the game and he's just a really good and funny person in general.
Hi Austin, you're a fucking beater and you suck dick and you're a dildo, but you're my favorite
beater that sucks dick and is a dildo and you're also one of my favorite people in the world so
don't ever change and I love you. Hey Jera, it's Peter just really wanting to say thank
you for everything that you do and teaching us everything that you know about ADC and
league in general, honestly, helping out all the bronzies to pretty much anyone else who
wants to learn about the game. You're a big help, and it's a good way to spend our free
time. Thanks, man.
Hey, Geronimer, GenieMeemer, how you doing? I'm doing great, thank you for asking.
I didn't ask!
I didn't ask. You're an okay person, you know. Just okay. Really cool personality and amazing
AD Carry skills, looks for days, all of those things. That's true, that's true. On top of
all that, you're also okay. You're also a really good person to talk to. You know,
and all of this isn't very serious by the way, I have no idea why I'm talking like
this. You're cool. You're cool. And I am really glad I met you and that we get along so well.
So I feel like I can talk to you about a lot of things quite seriously and like I appreciate
that. Don't get that with that many people. And I think your sense of humour is pretty
top notch too. So it's good to meet you. Good to have you in my life. That's what
I should end with.
Hey Geronimo, this is Ms. Gabies, and you're a really nice guy, so you deserve to be happy.
I hope you enjoyed this video, and love you, thanks for everything, something like that.
Bye!
Austin, you're honestly a terrific dude, and I'm really happy I got to meet you,
and I'm really happy you're one of my good friends, so keep that shit up, man!
Hi Austin, my name is Amit. I've been a subscriber for over a year on three different accounts.
I think you're an amazing human being and I've learned so much from you. I love you a lot.
Alright so, Geronimo is probably one of the most down-to-earth streamers that I've had the pleasure of watching
and his community that he built is one of the best ones on Twitch, in my opinion.
Hey Austin, even though you're a pretty sure guy, but you're a great friend, so keep doing what you do, man.
What I love about this stream is how much it feels like a family, and how Jarrah generally
appreciates his subs.
Plus whenever I see him I feel tall.
Hey Jarrah, well you just suck at league so...
Seriously, I love you and your band.
Thanks.
To the best Twitch streamer, here's to you Ossie Jones, cheers.
Hello LOL Geronimo, I am internet sensation, YouTube comedian, and League of Legends content creator, Professor Milk, big fan.
Now I know you don't really like my guides, and the one time I interview you, you actually say my build's garbage.
So I think your stream is really good.
And it's a very slushy play, DK. Keep up the good work. Thank you.
It's fucking true, it's horrible, the build is terrible.
I'd go, I'd go both ways.
Yeah, I'd love to take you on a date and we can ask around or just make out.
So say true animal, say true animal.
Say true animal, say true animal.
Say true animal, say true animal.
Say true animal, say true animal.
shit. I don't know what to say to that. Ms. Gabies, is that what you've been up to? Talking
to everybody? Oh my god. That's honestly, like, I think that's one of the nicest things
anybody's ever done for me. That was actually ridiculously nice. Holy shit, man. That
That was uh, wow.
I don't know what else to say, that was just like...
You guys are amazing.
Jesus man.
I mean that was, Ms. Gabies, thank you for setting that up, I don't know, that's awesome.
That was, oh my god.
I'm like flustered, because I don't know what to say, like...
Oh my god, it's like I've never had...
I didn't know the community cared about me that much.
It's kinda weird.
Holy moly.
I don't want to cry on stream.
I've already cried on stream before, and I don't want to cry on stream again.
But that's like literally...
freaking you guys are so nice like except for you know it's the ankle, loser, tiff,
fucking everybody, alex, freaking just so many people, miss gabies, hitch, spam it,
just every- oh my goodness man. you guys are definitely- you guys are gonna make me
they are. That was... thank you. Thank you guys, because that was one of the nicest things
people have ever done for me. I honestly get pretty bad sometimes when I think that my
community is kinda shitty, and uh... I guess it's not. I guess it's actually... it's actually
nice to know that that many people support me, and thousands more. It's actually pretty
be insane to know that you guys are that amazing. I don't know what else to say. You want me
to full cam the fucking screen? Alright. Um, first and foremost, I just want to say I
did not expect that at all, knowing that I have... That made my... Honestly, that
And that made my year, man. That was pretty awesome. That was a pretty rough year.
And, uh...
Met a lot of really good people this year.
And I just want to say thank you guys.
Thank you guys for that. That was way too nice, and honestly, I don't deserve it.
You guys are amazing people, and hopefully I can continue to keep doing what I love to do.
love to do and I hope that you guys will continue to support me in doing what I love to do.
I think it's just like I don't know what to say man. Honestly it's hard to like figure
out the words you know. Cry, I'm crying a little bit man but I can't like, I don't
you know, don't you dare compliment me. Ankleman you're like seriously one of the
nicest people I've ever met. Like, straight up. Straight up. Ankle, you are like, one of
the nicest dudes that I've ever randomly talked to on the internet. That's true. And you're
pretty awesome. Even when, I think the first time I ever played with Ankle, I raged at
him. Shit, you're not. I think I did. But he was really nice. And Mia, I love
you too. You spam the shit out of my chat like crazy but I love you. That's really nice
of you. Like you guys are awesome. Tiff, I hate you. I'm just gonna be honest. I'm just
kidding. I'm kidding. Tiff, you're a tiny little Asian fireball but you know what,
you've been there for me and really helped me out so I appreciate that. And I just
I just want to like say thank you to everybody, like basically, let's see, I don't even know
if Alex is here, but Alex has been a really good friend too, she's talked to me, helped
me out with a bunch of stuff, a bunch of other shit, you know.
Just overall, I just, I don't know what to say, you know what I mean, I'm really
bad in situations like this, because I want to be able to just, like, open up and say
thank you, but thank you isn't really enough to warrant what's happened, because for like
two and a half years, I've tried to make a community, I've tried to like, do this
dream of streaming, and every once in a while you're like, well, you know, maybe it's
not going to work out, maybe the stream isn't as good, but it's... when you
see something like that like Miss Gabies honestly I'm so fucking surprised that
you pulled that off and I had no idea everybody kept their mouths shut and it
was amazing and I wanted to say thank you for setting up that entire thing
your accent is adorable it's it's hilarious like I don't know what else
to say but uh I honestly didn't think I was gonna cry I didn't think I was
and I'm like I'm like half crying right now but Luz you're amazing too
I'm glad that I could help you out. I'm sorry. I'm not trying to ignore people. There were just so many amazing people in the video
and
And I don't really know I didn't ever think that I would get to this point to be honest like I'm gonna be real
I actually didn't think that I would get to the point where I
would have so many amazing people that cared about me and
Thank you guys all right, thank you guys a ton
You guys are amazing.
And Loserfruit, what you said meant a lot.
You're actually a very, very awesome person.
And I'm very glad that I met you as well.
You're very, very easy to talk to.
And just really easy to open up to.
So thank you again.
But you guys have made my year by doing this.
So it's just...
I don't know what else to say man honestly I'm just sitting here in awe
I'm just like sitting I don't know you know I mean like the pressure is on to
say something really awesome and amazing and yeah I just don't know so
sorry I'm sick and I'm you know I'm not no I'm fine I'm fine manliness yes
yes a speech I mean I basically gave it man I'm not gonna be able to make up
something randomly
so thank you guys again for everything you do for me that was honestly I'm
that was honestly very very nice and hopefully I can continue to stream for
as long as I have people wonderful people like you guys supporting me
In everything I possibly do and you guys have made my day. You guys have made my day
I love you guys with every fiber my being
even
Even me as sparkles even even you I
Sing a song I can't sing a song man, but Jesus fan that video
Oh my god, I
Don't know what to do at this point
I'm like, I can't think straight, you know what I mean? I've been put on the spot, my
brain is just like in panic mode, I'd never... I'm just gonna awkwardly leave, just like
we're good. No, but from the bottom of my heart, thank every single one of you for
everything you do. That's the best thing I can say.
